# Proposed Graduate Programming Language Exam Guidelines

Please use the “comments” tool (right click > comment) to leave your
suggestions or email dt2406.

Knowledge of computer languages can both reveal new literary-cultural
formations and serve as a powerful tool for the study of such formations.
However, it should not be viewed as a substitute for foreign language
proficiency, except for cases where such substitution is convincingly
justified and where it is warranted by sustained, deep engagement with the
material.

The following considerations are used when evaluating graduate student
requests to fulfill their foreign language as a programming (computer)
language.

- Proficiency in a computer/artificial language is not generally viewed as a
  supplement to foreign languages.

- The substitution is allowed in cases where a student's work benefits from
  computational literacy either as a subject or a method of study.

- The student is required to articulate the exception in writing, in the form
  of a concise (one page) proposal. The proposal  should describe the scope of
the project, relevant technologies involved, and a brief synopsis of secondary
literature using a similar approach.

There are two specific cases where a computer language as a foreign language
request is particularly appropriate:

1. Where a student's projected research program involves aspects of
   computational culture as a subject of study. These include (but not limited
to) topics in electronic literature, software studies, game studies, online
deliberation, combinatorial poetics, virtual communities, fan culture, media
studies, platform studies, sociology of knowledge, book piracy, politics of
the archive, human-computer interaction, and history and future of the book,
among other potentially relevant applications. Specific languages in this
category will often include historical or otherwise obscure dialects. Examples
from proposed studies include FORTRAN, 6502 Assembler (Nintendo), and Perl.

2. Where computer languages are used instrumentally, as a method of study. For
   example, medievalists may wish to acquire reading knowledge of German to
understand the secondary literature in that language. Similarly, a scholar of
Victorian British Literature will learn Python to facilitate analysis of
numerous texts across long periods of time. The proposed language in this
category should reasonably belong to the family of "major research languages,"
used in advanced courses of instruction. This list typically includes
languages such as Python, R, C, Java, and Julia. It does not include markup
languages such as HTML, CSS, or LaTeX, since these do not typically sustain
advanced graduate work.

Composed in consideration of:

Geisler, Michael, Claire Kramsch, Scott McGinnis, Peter Patrikis, Mary Louise
Pratt, Karin Ryding, and Haun Saussy. “Foreign Languages and Higher Education:
New Structures for a Changed World: MLA Ad Hoc Committee on Foreign
Languages.” Profession, 2007, 234–45.

## Format of the Exam

When possible the exam will be administered via a Jupyter Notebook following
the format of similar exams in foreign languages: one “annotation” exercise
that tests code comprehension and one “translation” exercise that tests for
reasoning and basic literacy.  The student should expect to attain an
“intermediate” level of proficiency, equivalent to one-year’s worth of
coursework in the field (or similar experience).

A sample test can be found
[here](https://github.com/denten/python-language-exam/blob/master/english-python-exam-sample.ipynb).
